[THEME MUSIC]
>>PAUL PERRY: He said, I've
got this writer who can't
pull the trigger on a book.
His name is Raymond Moody.
Have you ever heard of him?
All these people came up.
And they said, I
can't wait till I die.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Whoa.
You came close to
dying yourself.
>>PERRY: Ventricular
tachycardia.
>>GEORGE: Oh, my God.
>>PERRY: The widowmaker,
as they call it.
>>GEORGE: Have you looked
at the death of Jesus?
>>PERRY: I have not, but I've
looked at the life of Jesus.
There's whole medical
papers published
about did Jesus have a
near-death experience.
>>GEORGE: Exactly.
How do we know it wasn't
an extraterrestrial craft?
>>PERRY: We don't know.
>>GEORGE: What are Holy relics?
>>PERRY: They are
body parts of Saints.
>>GEORGE: Body parts of Saints.
>>PERRY: Yeah.
Once a year, he would come out.
And he would show
them to the public.
>>GEORGE: And they'd cheer?
>>PERRY: Some people would die.
>>GEORGE: Well, thanks for
joining us on "Beyond Belief."
Paul Perry is with us,
a documentary filmmaker
and co-author of several
incredible "New York Times"
bestselling books, including
"Evidence of the Afterlife"
and "Saved by the Light."
Paul, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>PERRY: Thank you.
I've wanted to be on this
show for a long time.
>>GEORGE: Your works
are simply stupendous.
>>PERRY: Thank you very much.
>>GEORGE: How did you
get involved in this?
>>PERRY: Well, I was
editing a magazine
in New York called
"American Health Magazine."
It was the most successful
magazine of the '80s.
And one day, I got a
call from my book agent
who wanted me to meet
him and have a hamburger.
And so we're having
this hamburger.
And he says, I've got this
writer who can't quite
pull the trigger on a book.
His name is Raymond Moody.
Have you ever heard of him?
And I said, no, I've never
heard of Raymond Moody.
And he says, well,
he works in the field
of near-death experiences
and near-death studies.
Have you ever heard of
a near-death experience?
I said, yeah.
People, they drown,
they see a tunnel.
But I'm not really
that interested.
And he said, look,
for the editor
of a major magazine, a
major health magazine,
you're not very smart.
You need to do a book
with Raymond Moody
and understand what near-death
experiences are about.
So I did that.
And I flew to Georgia
where Raymond lived.
The first book we did together
was called "The Light Beyond."
And that was supposed to
look at all the research that
had been done since
life after life had
been written 10 years earlier.
>>GEORGE: So you
learned quickly.
>>PERRY: I learned quickly.
And I learned from the master.
Raymond is a wonderful,
wonderful teacher.
>>GEORGE: Think
the world of him.
>>PERRY: And we
got to this point
where we finished
the book, but we
had just a little tiny
bit in it about children
and near-death experiences.
And I said, well, isn't anyone
doing research on children
in near-death experiences?
And Raymond says, only
one person that I know,
and that's a pediatrician in
Seattle named Melvin Morse.
>>GEORGE: Aha.
>>PERRY: And he said,
why don't you go see him
if you're interested
in doing the book?
So I called Melvin.
I went and stayed with
him, and convinced
him to do a book on children
in near-death experiences.
And that came out.
It was "Closer to the Light".
We couldn't sell
that book to anybody.
It was rejected
by 18 publishers.
>>GEORGE: Wow.
>>PERRY: And one
publisher, HarperCollins,
Diane Reverand at
HarperCollins bought it.
And the day she called
to tell me she bought it,
I had also received all
the rejection letters
from the other publisher.
>>GEORGE: And they've stayed
your publisher, I think,
haven't they?
>>PERRY: Mostly.
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
>>PERRY: Yeah.
>>GEORGE: In most books.
>>PERRY: And I was reading
these rejection letters.
And they're all saying
things like people don't care
this much about their children.
This is a magazine
article, not a book.
There was a typo on page
two of the proposal.
And I won't take
it because of that.
Meanwhile, here's Diane
Reverand on the phone saying,
if you do this right,
it's going to be huge.
And it was.
It came out.
Oprah grabbed it.
>>GEORGE: It took off
like a rocket ship.
>>PERRY: Like a rocket ship.
Yeah.
>>GEORGE: "Saved by
the Light," you're
a co-author with
Dannion Brinkley.
How did that relationship occur?
>>PERRY: Well, I had
written two books now
on near-death experiences.
One was "The Light
Beyond" with Raymond.
The other was "Closer
to the Light."
>>GEORGE: So at
that point, you're
beginning to become the expert.
>>PERRY: Trying to be.
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
>>PERRY: And I went to
a conference in Seattle
and the conference with Melvin.
And after we spoke, all
these people came up.
And they said, I
can't wait till I die.
>>GEORGE: Whoa.
>>PERRY: And yeah.
And we both put the brakes on.
And then this happened
again in the next conference
we were at and again.
And I said, that really isn't
what these books are about.
I need to do a book about
one case study, the best
one I can find, that
shows the good and the bad
of a near-death experience.
>>GEORGE: Sure.
>>PERRY: And so I went out
searching for the best case
study.
And I found a number
of people but they just
didn't seem right.
I didn't feel like I
could work with them.
And I went to Raymond's house.
Raymond lived in Alabama.
And I was talking to
Raymond about this.
And Raymond says, have you
ever met Dannion Brinkley?
And I said, no, I hadn't.
But at this point, I'd
known Raymond for two years.
And they were really
tight at that point.
But I'd never met Dannion.
And he said, well,
next time he's around,
you should come and
stay and visit him.
You should meet him.
10 minutes later, Dannion
comes blasting in the door.
White t-shirt, covered with oil,
>>GEORGE: Big guy.
>>PERRY: Big guy, noisy.
He drove his car up to
get a wrench or something
from Raymond.
>>GEORGE: He's got
that little accent.
>>PERRY: Yeah.
>>GEORGE: Hi, I'm
Dannion Brinkley.
>>PERRY: Total hillbilly.
And that was the
first time I met him.
And he did what he does
so well, is he just
read me, psychically, read me.
And we had all kinds
of great conversations
about near-death experiences,
and people he had met,
things that had happened to him.
As soon as I got home,
I called Diane Reverand
and called Nat, my agent.
And we all flew back to
Alabama and met with Dannion.
And by the end of
the day, he had
done the same thing, same magic
to them that he had done to me.
>>GEORGE: He wowed them.
>>PERRY: And we had
a book contract.
>>GEORGE: And his stories- hit
by lightning several times--
it's just amazing.
Indeed.
You produced a
documentary called,
"Afterlife," which
tells a incredible story
about the afterlife.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>PERRY: There
are a million ways
to die, perhaps two
million, perhaps even more.
In fact, we don't even know
how many ways there are to die.
But one thing we do know
is that a high percentage
of those who die have
what is commonly known
as a near-death experience.
Many people report
going up a tunnel
and seeing heavenly bodies
bathed in bright light.
And a good number see their life
flashed before them in a life
review and even enter
a heavenly realm.
We have many representations
of near-death experiences
all around us.
Artists down through
history and in every culture
have been there to record
these heavenly encounters.
It's as though mankind takes
a common path to heaven
and always has.
I know all about
near-death experiences,
because I have written about
them, nine books and all
with a number of the
field's top researchers.
I have looked at death in many
ways and in many cultures.
Yet, funny thing,
in all the years
I have studied and
written about death,
I have rarely thought that
it would ever happen to me.
Most of the time, I thought
that I would always be here,
a permanent inhabitant
of the living world.
What was it Sigmund Freud said?
"When we attempt
to imagine death,
we perceive ourselves
as spectators."
Like most everyone else, I, too,
imagine myself as a spectator.
I hid behind my writing,
safe for mortality.
I had a box seat in the stadium
of mankind, an eternal observer
in the game of life.
Then reality paid me a visit.
It was a beautiful day
with spectacular light
and clean air.
It was, as they say,
a good day to die.
I was out taking a
walk in the desert.
When out of nowhere, my heart
began to race fast and hard
like a runaway engine.
Before long, I was down and out.
In a lucid moment, I realized
that I could easily become
the subject of my own work.
I imagine what that would
be like by remembering
stories used in the
books I had written.
No longer did I believe
that the only thing
wrong with immortality was
that it goes on forever.
Or that it was a fate
worse than death.
I wanted real answers
to the age-old question,
what happens when we die?
>>GEORGE: You came
close to dying yourself.
>>PERRY: Ventricular
tachycardia.
>>GEORGE: Oh, my God.
>>PERRY: Left ventricle.
The widowmaker, as they call it.
>>GEORGE: Did anybody
find you out there?
>>PERRY: I actually,
finally, got up.
And my wife came over.
My wife was there, and
helped me to the car.
And we went to the Mayo
Clinic and got fixed.
>>GEORGE: How long ago was that?
>>PERRY: 15, 20 years ago.
>>GEORGE: Good for you.
>>PERRY: Yeah.
>>GEORGE: Well,
that gives you, I
think, the credibility to write
about near-death experiences.
>>PERRY: It does.
When you stand
close to the edge,
you have a different
view of the world.
That's for sure.
>>GEORGE: What do you think
the other side is all about?
What is it, Paul?
>>PERRY: Well, I have
this conversation
a lot with Raymond.
And what we know
is that people who
have near-death
experiences, many of them
go into a heavenly realm.
They describe it as like
looking at a city at night
and seeing the bright lights.
That's one way they describe it.
Others says it's a
very pastoral scene.
But the problem with
near-death experiences
is that they're
gateway experiences.
>>GEORGE: What do
you mean by that?
>>PERRY: Well, they'll take
you to the gate of eternity,
if you will.
But if you cross a boundary--
and there's almost always
a boundary involved in a
near-death experience--
people can't cross
a certain boundary.
And they're told, if
you cross this boundary,
you're not coming back.
>>GEORGE: You're
not coming back.
>>PERRY: And if they
cross that boundary,
we don't know what happens.
We don't know what the
heavenly realm is like.
So all we have is a
gateway experience
where we go to the gates.
We go to the city limits.
But we don't go right
into the city itself.
>>GEORGE: Are you convinced
that the dying experience
and the other side is real?
>>PERRY: I am.
Oh, yeah.
I am absolutely convinced.
>>GEORGE: Were you
always convinced?
>>PERRY: No, of course not.
No.
I'm very skeptical person.
>>GEORGE: What changed you?
Meeting other people
or meeting situations?
>>PERRY: No, not
my own situation.
It was meeting other
people and studying it.
And realizing that here's one
of the most important things
about near-death
experiences is that they're
consistent experiences
throughout all cultures.
So a Muslim in Egypt is
going to have the same--
yeah, the same
symptoms, if you will,
of a near-death experience as
someone here, someone in Omaha,
for instance.
>>GEORGE: What are shared
death experiences, Paul?
>>PERRY: Well, let me walk
into that a little bit.
One of the problems with
the near-death experience
is that it's subjective.
So in other words, if you
have a near-death experience,
you can only tell me about it.
I can't experience it.
>>GEORGE: Right.
>>PERRY: And that's what makes
it a subjective experience.
And that's what makes it the
source of a lot of criticism
by skeptics.
>>GEORGE: The
skeptics think it's
a figment of the imagination.
Or it's the dying process
that creates this illusion.
>>PERRY: It's that.
They think it's a dream.
Or they think it's a
mechanistic aspect of our brain
that triggers these elements.
And people who have
near-death experiences
generally don't have
all the elements
of a near-death experience.
But they'll leave their body.
They'll go up a tunnel.
They'll see a dead relative.
They'll see a beam of light.
So they're subjective
experiences,
because you can't
really take me there.
You can only tell me about it.
>>GEORGE: What tends
to send people back?
>>PERRY: It's generally a beam
of light that speaks to you.
It speaks to these people
and says, you can't leave.
You can't go.
So a lot of people want
to go beyond the boundary.
And they're told by a beam
of light or just a voice
that, sorry, you can't go.
You have things to do.
>>GEORGE: Well, do you
think these shared death
experiences are the real deal?
>>PERRY: Yes.
I think shared death
experiences are
completely different from
a near-death experience.
>>GEORGE: Our friend
Raymond Moody, whom
we've mentioned
several times already,
had an opportunity to talk
with you about the death
experiences.
>>PERRY: Oh, that's great.
>>RAYMOND MOODY:
For a long time,
we've known that people
who almost die and return
have these extraordinary
experiences.
But it's now becoming
quite obvious
that this experience
is also very
common among those
who are standing
at the bedside of
a dying loved one.
That is, it's quite common
that when a loved one dies,
the people standing
around will say that they
seem to leave their bodies.
They seem to accompany
the dying person partway
into another realm.
>>PERRY: And these are people
who are not near death.
They're perfectly well.
>>MOODY: Absolutely.
They're just standing
there accompanying
at the bedside
someone who is dying.
And all of the
effects that we hear
from near-death
experiences are also
present in the shared
death experiences.
People say that they become
aware of a beautiful light.
A very common feature
is that they tell us
that they see the relatives
of the deceased person coming
to meet them and
to take them away.
>>PERRY: Right.
>>MOODY: Another very
common feature of this
is that people will tell
us that they actually
see the spirit of the person
who is dying stand up,
or rise up from the body
that's just deceased.
Very often, this takes the form
of a misty globe, sometimes,
a globe of golden light.
Sometimes, it's described
more as a grayish cloud.
And that this just rises
up, and typically passes
through the ceiling.
And quite a number of
cases, however, this
is described as
having more of a form.
People will say that as though
there were a transparent
replica of the
person who is dying,
just sort of sits up or
stands up out of the body,
and goes away.
>>GEORGE: He is one of
a kind, isn't he, Paul?
>>PERRY: He's wonderful.
>>GEORGE: He makes the
dying process seems so real.
>>PERRY: He does.
He almost makes it seem fun.
>>GEORGE: I'm in no rush.
Either are you.
>>PERRY: No, I'm not.
>>GEORGE: But when
we get there, it's
nice to be able to
know, because do
you think when that time
comes, we'll think back
at moments like this, and go,
oh, yeah, we talked about that?
>>PERRY: Oh, I think we will.
I mean, when the
time comes, I think
we'll have a very
extensive life review.
That's one thing that almost
all near-death experiences have.
Where they go back and they
review their entire life
in minute detail,
and they generally
do it with kind of a
babysitter, if you will.
Someone who's speaking to
them, and saying, oh, you
should have done this.
You shouldn't have done that.
But they aren't
there to shame you.
They're just there to help
you understand how you could
have operated better in life.
>>GEORGE: Have you looked
at the death of Jesus?
>>PERRY: I have not.
But I've looked at
the life of Jesus.
>>GEORGE: Because I think he
had a shared death experience.
>>PERRY: We had that
discussion a lot.
Did Jesus have-- I mean,
there's whole medical papers
published about that.
Did Jesus have a
near-death experience?
>>GEORGE: Exactly.
>>PERRY: And that's
a great question.
That's a great question.
>>GEORGE: I mean, something
happened 2,000 years ago.
>>PERRY: Absolutely.
>>GEORGE: Something very
mystical, very supernatural.
>>PERRY: Yeah, sure.
>>GEORGE: And God, I would love
to have been a witness to that.
>>PERRY: But then it carried
on beyond a shared death
experience.
I mean, you could
easily classify it
as a shared death experience.
>>GEORGE: I think so.
>>PERRY: But then
there's other things
that happen where he
later appeared later
to different people.
>>GEORGE: In
different places, too.
>>PERRY: In different
places, yeah.
I mean, there's a lot of
different places actually.
And so that takes it
into a different realm
from shared death experiences.
That takes it into an
actual resurrection.
>>GEORGE: Tell me
about Jesus in Egypt.
>>PERRY: Well, I got
intrigued by Jesus
in Egypt when I went to Egypt.
And I think it was in 1995.
>>GEORGE: My dad was born
in Cairo, by the way.
>>PERRY: I thought so.
I thought so.
And I went to Egypt to do a
documentary film on the Stone
Temples of the Nile.
And so we just flew to Egypt.
And it's a very
exhausting flight.
And we flew to Egypt,
immediately got
on another plane, flew
way out to Abu Simbel.
And we had our production
boat out there.
And we got on the
production boat.
Everyone's exhausted.
And I'm sitting on
the bow of the boat.
Because we're there to work
on a documentary on the Stone
Temples of the Nile.
>>GEORGE: Right.
>>PERRY: And I'm sitting
on the bow of the boat.
And all of a sudden
across the desert,
there's three guys on
camels all dressed in white.
And I thought--
>>GEORGE: Too biblical.
>>PERRY: It was too biblical.
And I thought Jesus was here.
It's in Matthew.
It says that he came to Egypt
to get away from King Herod.
The whole family--
>>GEORGE: He escaped.
>>PERRY: He escaped.
The whole family fled.
And what's left of him here?
Do people know what he did?
If you do the math on
the verses in the Bible,
there's only a few verses
about him being in Egypt.
There's only a verse that
says they fled from Israel.
>>GEORGE: He was a
boy when they came in.
>>PERRY: He was very young,
probably about two years old.
And then five verses
later, they leave Egypt.
And it doesn't really tell
what he did while he was there.
So I started asking
people in every town
we'd get to in the boat.
Jesus was here.
What do you know about him?
Everybody, I was asking
all kinds of people.
>>GEORGE: And they
knew who he was.
>>PERRY: Well, they're Muslims.
So Jesus has a really
big place in the Quran.
>>GEORGE: He does.
>>PERRY: And so does
the Holy Family.
So they all started
telling me stories.
They said, well, he
was here in Matariya.
And there's a tree
there that they
say has continued to
grow for 2,000 years that
shows he was there.
Or he was in Gabal al-Tayr.
And in parts of Cairo--
Cairo didn't exist
then, but the area did.
And so I started getting
these stories from Egyptians
and putting them on a map.
And I had pins and I would
put the map, map his course
through Egypt.
>>GEORGE: He was
all over the place.
>>PERRY: He was.
But then I was able to contact
Pope Shenouda who's the Coptic
Pope for Coptic Christians.
And he says, well, I have a map.
We've just finished
a map of where Jesus
was, where the Holy Family was.
And we put together
a synod of bishops
to decide if this map
is authentic or not.
And they had Muslims.
And they had Coptic
bishops as well.
And he gave me a
copy of the map.
So at that point, that
became the focus of my life.
I had to go to Egypt.
And I had to go visit all the
sites that Jesus had visited.
>>GEORGE: And you
produced a documentary.
>>PERRY: I produced a document--
well, I first wrote a book.
>>GEORGE: "Jesus in Egypt".
>>PERRY: "Jesus in Egypt".
>>GEORGE: So beautiful.
>>PERRY: It's out there now.
>>GEORGE: Let's
take a little look
at the clip of this documentary.
>>PERRY: I'm curious
to know how you
could tell where this Holy
Family trail is looking back
2,000 years.
>>BISHOP MARCOS: Yes.
In the Bible, in the New
Testament, the angel appears.
And there are a vision to Joseph
to take the baby and his mother
to go to Egypt.
>>PERRY: Both the
Pope and the Bishop
thought that I should start
my journey in the same place
that the Holy Family
crossed into Egypt.
Now the Holy Family came through
here about 2,000 years ago.
What did they see at this
temple complex of Tel Basta?
>>LUTFY SHERIF:
Christian tradition
says that Jesus
and the Holy Family
arrived here at Tel Basta.
And the locals rejected them.
And so Jesus, more
or less out of anger,
destroyed all the temples.
>>GEORGE: It must be amazing
to walk on the same ground
that Jesus walked on.
>>PERRY: Oh, it's incredible.
I mean, the archeologists
say that when
you go to the pyramids now,
it looked exactly the same way
that it looked when
Jesus came through.
And then you're going to places
that tourists don't go to when
you follow the trail of Jesus.
And you see a lot of things
that have never really
been seen before.
In fact, we showed this,
we had the premiere
for this with the
Mubarak family.
And he used to be president of
Egypt till he got overthrown.
>>GEORGE: --ousted him
out in the Arab Spring.
>>PERRY: Right.
And we showed it in the opera
in the opera house at Cairo.
And he brought 1,600
of his best friends.
>>GEORGE: 1,600?
>>PERRY: Yeah.
And we sat up in a
hardened opera box, my wife
and I with Mrs. Mubarak, and
Mr. Mubarak, and Boutros-Ghali,
and a number of other
people, luminaries.
And Mrs. Mubarak kept
turning around to us,
and saying this is an Egypt
I've never seen before.
>>GEORGE: Really?
>>PERRY: Yeah.
And she said that
a number of times.
It's really very true.
It's way, way off
the beaten path.
>>GEORGE: Tell me the
significance, Paul, of "
Jesus in Egypt" in your opinion.
>>PERRY: Well, he
was with us 33 years.
And the Bible covers
only 3 and 1/2 years.
Well, it covers
actually covers about--
>>GEORGE: Not a lot.
>>PERRY: Not a lot.
It covers a bit
less than 10 years.
And so the significance
to me is that there's
a lot of information out there
that wasn't used in the Bible.
And a lot of those
are oral tradition,
which Middle Eastern Christians
believe is grade A gospel.
And so I used a lot of those.
The Quran has a lot
of stories in it
about Jesus and
about Mary and Joseph
that the Bible
doesn't have at all.
So I wanted to combine
all of these stories
to tell as complete
a story as I could
about what I always call the
secret childhood of Jesus.
Because I think it's important
to know what kind of a child
he was.
It's important to know
that he did divine things.
>>GEORGE: I was going to say,
did he do mystical things then?
>>PERRY: He did do
mystical things.
Yeah, he did a lot
of healings according
to the oral tradition.
>>GEORGE: At a young age?
>>PERRY: A very young
age, about three or four.
He was born as if a man.
>>GEORGE: Did he know who he was
at that time, in your opinion?
>>PERRY: I think it's
clear that he did.
He knew he was very special.
And of course, his family
knew he was very special.
And he showed this specialness
by going through Egypt
and doing miracle after miracle
until people were literally
following him.
>>GEORGE: How old was
when he left Egypt?
>>PERRY: Oh, he was about
5 and 1/2 years old.
>>GEORGE: And they came back
to, where, the Middle East?
>>PERRY: Yeah.
According to the
Bible, and according
to the information I
found, they left Asyut,
which is the center of Egypt.
And they and they took
a boat back to Israel.
>>GEORGE: When they were out
of danger from Herod, right?
>>PERRY: Yes.
Yeah.
They were contacted
by an angel in Asyut.
And Asyut now,
interestingly enough, is it
has a church dedicated to
that, in an area called
Gabal al-Tayr, which
is mountain of fire.
And that's where they say
that the Holy Family lived
for nine months until they
got the message from an angel
that they could
return to Israel.
But now, in that area,
there's repeat visions
that occur from the sky.
>>GEORGE: Still?
>>PERRY: Still.
Oh, yeah.
And I photographed one.
I photographed one.
>>GEORGE: What did it look like?
>>PERRY: It looked
like a shower of light.
And it was orange.
And it came down on
top of this church.
But the church was white.
And you could tell that it--
>>GEORGE: Wow
>>PERRY: It wasn't something.
It wasn't an anomaly
that happened.
>>GEORGE: How do
we know it wasn't
an extraterrestrial craft?
>>PERRY: We don't know.
>>GEORGE: Possible?
>>PERRY: Possible.
I took it to the Apple
lab at American University
and had them examine it.
And they examined it.
And they said this was not
something that happened.
It wasn't a flare on the lens,
that it was truly something
that came down from the sky.
>>GEORGE: That is dramatic.
So he leaves Egypt,
goes back to Palestine.
>>PERRY: Goes back to Israel.
>>GEORGE: I guess, right?
>>PERRY: Then he disappears.
>>GEORGE: Just disappears
until he pops up again
when he's close to, what, 30?
>>PERRY: Well, he pops up again
at the age of 12 for one day.
And then after that, from the
age of 12 until the age of 30,
he's off the charts.
>>GEORGE: Charts.
>>PERRY: He's off
the Bible charts.
But there's a number of stories
and books in the Bible--
and books-- that did not
make it into the Bible.
And those are the
stories that I relied on
to do "Jesus in Egypt."
And my intention is
to go ahead and do
the rest of the trip that covers
the next 17 or 18 years where
he left home, went to Israel.
>>GEORGE: He was one
of a kind, obviously.
>>PERRY: The most important
person in history.
>>GEORGE: Changed the world.
>>PERRY: The most
formidable, easily.
Yeah.
>>GEORGE: Do you think
he was the real deal?
>>PERRY: He has to
be the real deal.
I mean, he exhibited
so much power and power
through kindness.
>>GEORGE: What are Holy relics?
You've done some work there.
>>PERRY: Holy relics, they
are body parts of Saints.
>>GEORGE: Body parts of Saints?
>>PERRY: Yeah, body
parts of Saints.
>>GEORGE: Like ears and fingers?
>>PERRY: Fingers, ears, noses.
>>GEORGE: Where
were they obtained?
>>PERRY: Well, supposedly
they were obtained from Saints
after the Saints died.
And then they were spirited
away by Christians.
>>GEORGE: So a Saint would
die and they'd chop them up?
>>PERRY: Or if they weren't
chopped up before by people
who didn't like them.
>>GEORGE: My God.
>>PERRY: So if you have
Matthew, for instance,
Matthew, when Christ
was crucified,
Matthew went to Alexandria.
And he started preaching
the word in Alexandria.
And he had his head cut off.
And his head is now a relic.
>>GEORGE: Where is it?
>>PERRY: Well, it was in Egypt.
The Coptic Christian
church had it.
The Catholics took it.
And the Catholics put
it in the Vatican.
>>GEORGE: His skull.
>>PERRY: His skull,
for several years
until recently until the
last three or four years.
>>GEORGE: They had it actually?
>>PERRY: They actually had it.
And they gave it back
to Coptic Christians.
>>GEORGE: That's amazing.
>>PERRY: Well, there's a
lot of trade that goes on
in body parts, if you will.
>>GEORGE: Is there any feeling
of special, supernatural things
when you're close to it?
>>PERRY: There's
always a feeling
when I'm close to all
of this stuff, when
I'm close to Holy
relics, for instance.
Holy relics are amazing.
And I never had thought
about them in my whole life
until I became a
Knight in Portugal.
And I'm a Knight with the
Portuguese royal house.
>>GEORGE: Oh, good.
>>PERRY: And I've
met a fellow there
named Carlos Evaristo who's
the Vatican relic expert
in Portugal.
And he introduced me to
their private collection
which is 25,000 certified relics
that they have at the castle--
>>GEORGE: Body parts?
>>PERRY: --in Ourm castle.
Yes.
>>GEORGE: What's the
significance of the body parts?
What do they do?
>>PERRY: They're
objects of veneration.
>>GEORGE: Simple.
>>PERRY: People think they heal.
>>GEORGE: Get some
sort of a finger
and rub it over you, or what?
>>PERRY: You just being in
the same room, praying to it.
>>GEORGE: Really?
>>PERRY: Yeah.
>>GEORGE: I've
never heard of this.
>>PERRY: Oh, yeah.
No.
Really, they're in beautiful
reliquaries, they're called.
They're in little
golden church--
that looks like churches.
They're in these
little golden houses.
There's one where there's
a bone of a Saint.
And it's in a reliquary that
looks like the whole hand
and the bone.
And you can see a window.
And you can see the bone.
It is fascinating.
>>GEORGE: Well, you
produced a documentary
called "Relic Kingdoms".
>>PERRY: Yes.
And what I was doing was going
all over Europe filming relics.
>>GEORGE: All right.
Let's take a look.
>>PERRY: Yeah.
Oh, Indiana Jones,
you chose poorly.
You spent years reading
ancient manuscripts
and scouring antique
maps to find the Holy
Grail, the cup of the
Last Supper of Jesus
Christ, the most sought
after relic of all times.
Yet none found it.
Even you, Indy.
You went to the
deserts of Jordan
and found, well, a fiction,
imitation grails guarded
by a bewildered and
immortal knight.
All false, Mr. Jones.
The real Grail wasn't there.
That's because it's
here in Valencia, Spain
where it has been for
hundreds of years.
At first, hidden, but
now in plain sight.
This is the story
of the real cup
of the Last Supper, the
first relic of Christendom,
the one and only Holy Grail.
>>GEORGE: That's a
fascinating documentary, Paul.
>>PERRY: It's kind of amazing.
>>GEORGE: What are the
implications for all of us
with these Holy relics?
>>PERRY: Well, there's
none unless you're
a member of the faith.
I will say that almost every
religion that's non Protestant
has relics.
In Egypt, every
church has the bones
of St. Michael, St. George.
It goes on and on.
But there are just
little powdered bones.
I mean, everyone says,
well, they couldn't possibly
have all the bones of St.
George because they would have
5,000 pounds worth of bones.
But that's not the case.
They just have a little
bit of powder from Jesus.
>>GEORGE: And Jesus,
of course, resurrected.
There are no bones.
>>PERRY: Right, right.
>>GEORGE: Wouldn't that be
amazing though to have that?
>>PERRY: That'd be wonderful.
But it's like it's our
connection to the divine.
I mean, that's how people who
believe in relics and worship
relics look at them.
They look at them as a
connection to the divine.
So in France, for instance,
you had Louis 11th
who ruled that country, because
he was called the Relic King.
And he had the crown of thorns.
And we had an opportunity to
work with the crown of thorns.
But he had the crown of thorns.
Once a year, he
would come out and he
would show them to the
public, hold them up,
and that would be it.
>>GEORGE: And they'd cheer?
>>PERRY: Some people would die.
>>GEORGE: Tell me
the significance
of all of this with afterlife,
which is what we talked about
in the beginning.
>>PERRY: Well, it
all links somewhere.
I think it all links
in the spiritual realm
where you go from
near-death experiences
to shared death experiences.
There's a clear link there.
And then it's not a big step to
be wanting to deal with Egypt
and to deal with Jesus.
Egypt is the first Resurrection
religion in history.
And that's where almost all
Resurrection teachings came
from until the time of Jesus.
So it's not a really big step
to make that jump to Egypt.
>>GEORGE: Yet the
ancients believed in life
after death way beyond
and before Jesus.
>>PERRY: They did.
But oh, yeah.
They definitely did.
Yeah.
You can see that.
And I'm sure it was
before Egypt even.
But you can see evidence of it
on the walls of Egypt, which
are thousands of years old.
And you can see
near-death experiences
written in the walls.
>>GEORGE: Well, they had books,
the Tibetan Book of the Dead,
the Egyptian Book
of the Dead, where
it was basically
a guide on what's
going to happen when you die.
>>PERRY: That's it.
And you can see it on the walls.
You can read it in those books.
It's my theory that Resurrection
religion, even to the day,
even till now, came
largely from the Egyptians.
They kind of codified it.
>>GEORGE: Everything seemed
to come from the Egyptians.
>>PERRY: Or the Greeks.
>>GEORGE: Or the Greeks.
>>PERRY: That was true.
Yeah.
>>GEORGE: Do you think
they go back much
farther than we think?
>>PERRY: The Egyptians?
>>GEORGE: In terms of societies?
>>PERRY: Yeah, they do.
Absolutely do.
And I think there's great
archeological evidence of that.
You don't see much archeological
evidence of the Egyptians
until things went stone,
where they started dealing
in stone and building pyramids.
That was in 2,600.
>>GEORGE: But if
they built them.
>>PERRY: Well, anyway.
And the architect was thought
to be a guy named Imhotep.
>>GEORGE: What's
next for you, Paul?
>>PERRY: I want to get this
series done, the Relic series
done.
And I'm also working on a book
on shared death experiences.
Beyond that, that's about it.
>>GEORGE: Yeah, the
shared death experiences,
which we've talked about
are really fascinating.
>>PERRY: They are fascinating.
And you can look
at old documents
and see them in history.
Plato wrote about them
in Plato's "Republic."
There's a shared
death experience that
happens in Plato's "Republic."
You see them in the Bible.
>>GEORGE: What creates
the sharing experience?
>>PERRY: Oh, that's a
million dollar question.
>>GEORGE: It sure is.
>>PERRY: And I don't
think anyone knows.
However, the National
Institutes of Health
are now investigating something
called terminal lucidity, which
is, as it sounds,
it's people who
become lucid after
they are certified--
>>GEORGE: --a lucid dream?
>>PERRY: Essentially,
they have no brainwaves.
A lot of these people
who have terminal
lucidity have no brain waves.
>>GEORGE: But then
they come back?
>>PERRY: They come back.
And they're in bed.
I've seen it.
I actually saw it one time.
They wake up out of a coma.
In the coma, they
have no brain waves.
So they're
essentially not there.
>>GEORGE: Right.
>>PERRY: And they
wake up out of a coma.
They carry on very lucid,
lengthy conversations.
Their family members
think, oh, my God, we
can bring them home now.
And they generally die within
a few hours or a couple of days
later.
>>GEORGE: Really?
All of them?
>>PERRY: Almost all of them.
There's a few that have lasted.
>>GEORGE: Are you aware
of Eben Alexander?
>>PERRY: Yeah.
Yeah, I know Eben.
Yeah.
>>GEORGE: Great story.
>>PERRY: Yeah,
he's a good story.
>>GEORGE: Afterlife
and you pass on.
>>PERRY: Yeah.
>>GEORGE: Everybody
seems to talk
about the same thing, Paul.
>>PERRY: Well, that's
because it happens
the same way to everybody.
I mean, you can look at
the research of Jeff Long.
Jeff has collected--
>>GEORGE: Jeffrey Long?
>>PERRY: Jeffrey
long has collected--
I don't know-- 4,000,
5,000 case studies
from all over the world.
They all read the same.
They're all the same.
>>GEORGE: Are you
afraid of dying?
>>PERRY: I think
everyone's afraid of dying.
I don't care what they say.
And yes, I am afraid of dying.
I'm afraid of taking
a journey that I
don't know where I'm going.
I know what'll happen
up to a certain point.
But like I said before,
it's a gateway experience.
I don't know what's beyond.
>>GEORGE: Do you believe
in reincarnation?
>>PERRY: Raymond and I did
a book on reincarnation.
>>GEORGE: You did.
>>PERRY: And we
did that because we
were asking the same question.
We're running into
reincarnation stories
constantly by studying
near-death experiences.
>>GEORGE: Paul, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
It's the age old question,
what happens when you die?
One day, we'll all
find out, but not yet.
Not yet.
I'm George Noory.
And thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."